DATASET USED IN THE PROJECT:

The dataset used in this lab comes from the following source: 
https://data.montgomerycountymd.gov/Government/Fleet-Equipment-Inventory/93vc-wpdr
under a Public Domain license.


TASKS:

1) Save the CSV file as an XLSX file: Change the ‘Viewing’ in the ToolTip to ‘Editing’inorder to save the file as an XLSX file. The file is converted when you click ‘Convert’ in the prompt.
2) Empty rows: Use the Filter feature to look for blanks and remove all empty rows from the data.
3) Duplicate records: Use either the Conditional Formatting or Remove Duplicates feature to look for and remove any duplicated records from the data.
4) Spelling: The original source file data has not been checked for errors in the spelling. Check for spelling mistakes in the data and fix them.
5) Whitespace: Use the Find and Replace feature to remove all double-spaces from the data.
6) Department names: When the data was converted from its data source, the department names (see correct list below) didn’t import correctly and they are now split over two columns in the data. Use Flash Fill to reduce the department names to just one column, and then remove any unnecessary columns.
Department	                                                Department
Board of Elections	                                      Economic Development
Circuit Court	                                      Environmental Protection
Community Engagement Cluster	                Finance
Community Use of Public Facilities	          Fire and Rescue
Consumer Protection	                           General Services
Correction and Rehabilitation	                     Health and Human Services
County Executives Office	

7) Format the data as a table: Use the Format as Table option to format the data as a table.

8) Use AutoSum to calculate values: Use AutoSum to find the following values for column ‘C’ and record each of the values:

SUM
AVERAGE
MIN
MAX
COUNT

9) Create a Pivot Table: Use the PivotTable feature to create a pivot table that displays the Department field in the Rows section, and the Equipment Count in the Values section, so that the pivot table displays the sum of equipment count by department.

10) Sort the pivot table data: Use the Sort By Value setting on the pivot table to sort it in descending order by the sum of equipment count.

11) Make two more pivot tables exactly the same as task 9: Follow the same steps you performed in Tasks 9 and 10 to create two more identical pivot tables so that you end up with 3 worksheets that contain identical pivot tables.

12) Analyze data in the pivot table: Use the PivotTable Fields pane to manipulate and analyze data in the two copied pivot table as follows:

13) In pivot table 2 add the Equipment Class field below the Department field so that the different vehicle types appear under each department with their respective counts.
-----Collapse all fields except the top one - Transportation
14) In pivot table 3 add the Equipment Class field above the Department field so that the different vehicle types appear first, with the different departments listed underneath each vehicle type with their respective counts.
-----Collapse all fields except the top one - CUV

Procedures:

*Remove Empty Row* -- First applied filter on the dataset and then selected only "Blanks" in the filter drop down. Then removed all the blank rows and cleared all the filter to revert back and get back all the dataset.

*Remove Duplicate Records* -- Select all the data and go to Data tab and select remove duplicates.

*Check Spelling* -- Go to the spelling option in the Review tab and make the respective changes.

*Remove Whitespace* -- Select Find and replace from Home tab and find error (here double space) and replace with the correct (here single space).

*Pivot sorting* -- Select More sorting option from the filter dropdown in pivot table and then select the column and sort by descending.

 

